1. General information

The application is called UsersCRUD.
There are no dedicated icons nor other graphics.
Application is available in English, with no internationalization mechanism.
UsersCRUD was initiated with the overall pattern of universal Swift (iPhone / iPad) Single View application.
The easiest way to run the application is the XCode iPhone 6s Simulator.

2. Storage of data

User information is stored through the CoreData mechanism.
CoreData objects are stored in a SQLite database in the UsersCRUDCoreData.sql file in Documents Directory.
For the purposes of unit testing CoreData is stored in the memory.
At the beginning, application is checking the number of records in the database. If there are no users available, 1000 records are loaded from sample data.
The sample data were generated by the service https://www.mockaroo.com. Data file MOCK_DATA.json is stored in the Main Bundle.

4. CRUD

READ
The main screen is a user table with standard Subtitle table view cell.
There is an ability to filter users, with a text which is part of the surname.

CREATE
In the upper right corner of the main screen there is a '+' button. It allows to add a new record to the database. Insert edit screen is a modal window emerging from below. Save operation is possible only after full fill all four fields in the record.

UPDATE
After selecting one of the table line, the app goes to detailed view with the possibility of editing user.
Recording updated user and return to the tabular view is possible only if you change any of the fields, assuming that all four fields have introduced some value.

DELETE
Swipe left on the row of the table will show you Delete key that allows delete the line.

5. Additional information

Phone number field have a formatter procedure that mimics the action of entering a phone number to the contacts iOS book. There can be +99 999 999 9999, or for larger numbers: +99 99999999999 or 99999999999 (9 means any digit).

While editing, if the input box for the address is covered by on-screen keyboard, the screen automatically scrolls up.

After returning to the Grid View, the proper row of the table is selected - last edited or just added. As long as it does not interfere with the current value of the filter.

6. tests

Unit tests are available from the XCode environment. Tests can validate elementary CRUD operations for the User class.